
Introduction
------------

Cardoon is a circuit simulator program being developed using
Python. The design was originally inspired from several ideas in
fREEDA (http://www.freeda.org/) and carrot
(http://vision.lakeheadu.ca/research.html), plus some improvements
that take advantage of the flexibility in Python.

One of the main goals of this project is to obtain a program which is
easy to modify and test to experiment new simulation
algorithms/models. Following good software engineering practices, the
program and the documentation are being developed at the same
time. Thus all implemented features are documented. Complete
documentation for this project is included with the source and can
also be found at:

  http://vision.lakeheadu.ca/cardoon/

A secondary objective is to add features and make the program
efficient enough to be useful for general use, if possible.  The
program is still at the early development stage but it has already
enough functionality to be useful for some tasks. It can currently
simulate circuits with a few thousand nodes in reasonable times.  If
you plan to use this program please be aware that as it is developed
interfaces may have to be changed, sometimes *breaking compatibility
with earlier versions*.

State-variable nonlinear device modeling (in the fREEDA sense) is
supported. A state-variable PN junction model is included. This
junction is used to implement a diode (svdiode) and a bipolar
transistor device (svbjt). Regular voltage controlled models for the
diode and BJT are also available.  Electro-thermal models are
automatically generated from electrical models.  Nonlinear models use
automatic differentiation for Jacobian calculation. In addition,
automatic differentiation can also be used to calculate sensitivities.

Please see the list of supported analysis types in the analysis
library catalog. Currently basic DC/AC/Transient analyses have been
implemented. DC and Transient can use sparse or dense matrices (sparse
by default).

Cardoon is being developed with Python 2.6 on Debian Squeeze, but it
should work OK with Python 2.7 under other operating systems.

Comments are welcome!

Carlos Christoffersen <c.christoffersen@ieee.org>


License
-------

Cardoon is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, version 3 or later:

  http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt

(See also LICENSE file included with the source)




